So I saw a good idea on youtube, a challenge to learn machine learning for 66 consecutive days, just for 5 minutes.

Before I get into that. I mentioned a course before. Well, the course had some advices about what kind of people are
good as data analyst, statistian and machine learning engineer. I still think that the third option fits me the best.
But now I'm without courses. I could go for the overlapping parts, but I focus on making my own "course".

Anyway, first day, I'll write hopefully everyday for a while from now on.

## Day 1 - Humble beginnings, or re-re-re-re-opening
I picked up again Andriy Burkov'S "Machine Learning Engineering" book.
I had some experience with deeplearning and his book is kind of a toolbox. 
It has a simple, still very useful framework, it's full of good practice advices and it covers
the full life cycle of a model to give some perspective. It also has a nice glossary, to refresh vocab of data science.

So to quote some ideas from the book , the part of creating a product:
what's worth cooking (doing), what the objectives are - decision making, product management
how to process ingredient (data) at scale - data engineering
how to try many different ingredient-appliance combinations quikly to generate potential recipes - prototype phase ml engineering
how to check whether the quality of the model is good enough to serve - statistics
how to turn a potential recipe into millions of dishes served efficiently - production phase ml engineering
how deliver top notch dishes even if instead of the ordered potatoes you get a truck of rice - reliability engineering

so in short
decision making, product management
data engineering
prototype phase ml engineering
statistics
production phase ml engineering
reliability engineering

Other than that I was brainstorming about the content of my course. 
This is just a draft, sort of

dnn models - simple linear regression, parts of the model in python, tensorflow, pytorch, first iteration of the workflow, 
different activation functions, non-linearity, first helper fuctions? python, tensorflow, pytorch, use of documentation
cnn models, parts, first famous architectures (alexnet, vgg16)
lstm, gru, etc. use cases some paper here?


